---
title: The Painter and the Thief
---

The Painter and the Thief follows Barbora Kysilkova, a painter from Norway, and a thief, Karl - Bertil Nordland who stole one of her paintings in an exhibition.It is set in the observational mode, and was literally recorded as the story came about.So, the documentary is entirely set in real life, and was completely unscripted.Barbora tracks down Karl - Bertil after a trial about the painting, and they start a friendship as Barbora asks to paint a portrait of Bertil.Barbora is very curious to understand why Bertil stole the painting, and where the painting ended up.Unfortunately, Bertil was high at the time he stole the painting, and couldn't answer her. The documentary portrays Bertil in a very positive light. Despite being a criminal, one of the themes of the documentary is trying to break the stigma associated with criminals, and showing how they are normal people aside from their crime. This is especially evident with Bertil's emotional reaction to the first time seeing the painting of him.He is overwhelmed by his emotions, seeing himself captured on the canvas.However, their relationship is far from over.As the documentary progresses, it is revealed that Bertil has a drug addiction problem, and that has a major role in the storyline.Bertil relapses on his drug addiction, steals a car, and gets severely injured.With the help of Barbora, he is able to recover from the accident with minor damage, but he gets sent to one year in jail.Overall, Bertil's recovery and his transformation to becoming a member of society is an inspiring one.
Along with a partner, I was tasked with creating a presentation that analyzed this documentary.As the designer, I went for a vector look.I wanted to portray the art aspect of the documentary, and so I went with a theme that is reminiscent of figma and other designing websites.We also analyzed how the documentary was able to share one of its main messages: "don't judge a book by its cover".One especially poignant clip that showed this was when Bertil was being dumped by his girlfriend.Without context, viewers would see Bertil in this messy house trying to find his stuff, and based on Bertil's appearance they would assume he was a thief. Normally, people would associate thieves with the messy house, thinking all thieves are lazy and disorganized. However, that could not be further from the truth. Bertil was actually going through a very emotionally turbulent time in his life, as well as the fact that his girlfriend packed up all of his stuff, and so he literally couldn't find his items.
The Painter and the Thief is a powerful and unique documentary, quite unlike any other documentary I've seen. I came in expecting a narrator like that of David Attenborough in Planet Earth. Instead, I left with a greater appreciation for the people and things we have, and how everyone, no matter how much they have fallen, deserve a chance to get back up.
